Do you own a car or a motorbike
or some other type of vehicle?
If you do, you realize that it brings with it
a serious responsibility.
Initially, it costs quite a bit of money
to buy a vehicle,
but also you need to keep on spending money
to keep it running.
In addition to that,
there is another serious responsibility
that comes with owning a vehicle.
And that is the responsibility
to maintain it safely
so that it doesn’t break down,
doesn’t cause accidents
and, most important,
doesn’t cause loss of life.
Of course, if you have a maintenance program,
you’re not just going to wait
for something to fall off the vehicle
or perhaps for it just to stop.
But, rather, ahead of time,
you have to have a checklist
to see that everything is working properly.
Well, in a similar way, spiritually speaking,
each one of us needs a maintenance program
with regard to our spirituality.
What sort of maintenance program
are we talking about?
Well, let’s take our Bibles, please,
and turn to the second book of Corinthians
chapter 13 and verse 5,
2 Corinthians 13:5;
there it says:
“Keep testing whether you are in the faith;
“keep proving what you yourselves are.
“Or do you not recognize
that Jesus Christ is in union with you?
Unless you are disapproved.”
So notice right in the beginning
of that verse, it says
to “keep testing” and “keep proving.”
What does that really mean?
Well, if you look at the study note
associated with verse 5,
it tells us this:
“One lexicon states that the word
Paul here uses for ‘testing’
“means ‘to endeavor to discover
“the nature or character of someth[ing].’
“They could discover the nature
of their own spiritual standing
“by comparing their daily conduct,
attitudes, and decisions
“with the sacred truths they were taught.
“Doing such testing would help them
“to keep proving
that they were true Christians.
“For ‘proving,’ Paul uses a word
“that could refer to testing
whether something is genuine,
as one might test metals.”
Do we see the point
of what this verse tells us?
As Christians,
we need to ‘keep testing continually
that we’re in the faith.’
But now, what does this word “faith” mean
in this context?
It’s not just referring
to the quality of faith
but, rather, it involves
all the Christian teachings
that we find in God’s Word, the Bible.
So having that in mind,
“keep testing” and “keep proving” really mean
that we need to look at ourselves
and see if we’re really living up
to what the Bible tells us to do.
Now, that’s a very serious
maintenance program.
But just as we do a maintenance program
for a vehicle
and we might have a checklist,
is there a checklist that we can use
when we’re testing and proving
that we’re in the faith?
Yes, there is.
We can say there are three things.
First of all, we need to ask
heart-searching questions
about our relationship with Jehovah.
That’s the first point:
Ask the questions
that will search through our heart.
Second, we have to answer honestly.
Yes, whatever we see
as an answer to those questions,
then we need to have a correct answer.
And then, finally,
we need to seek Jehovah’s help
in making whatever adjustments
we need to make
so that we can maintain our spirituality
strong and in good standing
so that our relationship
with Jehovah is good.
So with that in mind, let’s go back
to the illustration we started with
—a vehicle, a car, or a motorbike.
If you were to compare
our Christian faith or our beliefs
or our conduct
to a vehicle and the need to maintain it,
what sort of things would you make
as a comparison?
Well, perhaps the first thing
we might think about is the engine.
You certainly need to make sure
the engine works correctly
because that’s what gives the vehicle
the power to keep moving.
So it’s good for us to ask the question,
What is it that moves us or motivates us
so that we serve Jehovah acceptably?
Well, the answer is found in the Scriptures.
And if we turn together
to the first book of Timothy
chapter 4 and verse 8
—that’s 1 Timothy 4:8—
see if you can discern
what it is that we could liken
to the engine in a car.
It tells us:
“For physical training
is beneficial for a little,
“but godly devotion
is beneficial for all things,
“as it holds promise of the life now
and the life that is to come.”
Did you see what the scripture tells us
is so important?
Godly devotion.
But we need to understand
what godly devotion is.
In fact, we also need to appreciate
this beautiful expression
in the New World Translation.
Many other Bibles just simply translate this
as “godliness”—“godliness is beneficial.”
Or perhaps they say “godly training”
or “being religious,”
or even one version says “mental training.”
But the New World Translation  captures
the meaning of the original word here,
because you can train, or program, a robot
to do a certain job,
but you can’t program it
to have godly devotion.
Why not?
Because godly devotion involves
how we feel about Jehovah.
It means our loyalty to him
based on a heart
full of love and appreciation.
So when it says godly devotion is important,
it really involves why  we do things,
not just what  we do.
Well, let’s think back
to our illustration of the vehicle.
You want to test the engine.
What would you do to check the engine
to see if it’s OK?
Well, one thing you might do
is keep an eye on the temperature gauge,
because if the engine is overheating,
you know there’s a problem.
Or perhaps you might check the oil
to see if there’s enough oil.
Or you may check to see
if you’ve changed the oil regularly enough.
Or when the engine is idling,
you might listen carefully to it
to see if it’s running smoothly or roughly
and, of course, you’d be interested
if there are any strange sounds or noises.
So that’s the type of thing
you would have on a checklist
when you’re trying to see
if an engine is working properly.
Now, none of that applies
to godly devotion, does it?
But what could be on our checklist
for us to test godly devotion
to see if it’s healthy and strong or not?
Well, again, the Bible helps us.
If you turn with me
this time to the book of Psalms,
let’s look at Psalm 40:8
—that’s Psalm 40:8.
Here it tells us:
“To do your will, O my God,
“is my delight,
and your law is deep within me.”
Now, this is a test of our godly devotion.
How so?
Well, we need to ask ourselves:
‘Is my service to God
something that I really delight in,
‘or is it simply a chore?
‘Is it something that I do as a mere routine
‘—something that I just
keep on doing regularly
but don’t really have
a strong desire to accomplish?’
Well, if we were thinking
that our godly devotion
was not so good, not so strong,
and perhaps we were just doing things
out of routine
rather than for our love for Jehovah,
we need to take action,
just the same as if we heard
that the engine had a knocking sound
or if we saw that it was overheating.
And that’s exactly
what Jesus told the brothers
back in the first century
in the congregation in Ephesus.
Please turn with me
to the book of Revelation,
Revelation chapter 2.
And you’ll remember that this section
of the book of Revelation
has a series of messages
that Jesus gives to different congregations.
Now, the first congregation mentioned
is in Ephesus.
If you look at chapter 2 of Revelation
and if we glance through verses 2 and 3,
what do you notice?
Well, Jesus says to the brothers:
“I know your deeds,
and your labor and endurance.”
That sounds good, doesn’t it?
Then he goes on to say
that they didn’t “tolerate bad men.”
And then in verse 3,
he mentions that they “persevered”
and that they “[had] not grown weary.”
So, what do we assume from these two verses?
That our brothers back then
in the first century
in the congregation in Ephesus
were busy doing the work of Jehovah.
Yes, they were active.
They weren’t giving up.
But then what does Jesus say in verse 4?
“Nevertheless, I hold this against you,
that you have left the love
you had at first.”
Do we see the point?
Clearly, it shows us that Jehovah and Jesus
are not just interested in what  we do
but also why  we do it.
Yes, they want us to serve our God, Jehovah,
in a way that shows that we love him
and that we’re loyal to him,
just the same as Jesus loves his Father
and is loyal to him.
And this is so important!
The apostle Paul highlighted this.
If you turn with me, please,
to 1 Corinthians chapter 13,
1 Corinthians chapter 13,
and notice what Paul says under inspiration
in verse 3:
“And if I give all my belongings
to feed others,
“and if I hand over my body
so that I may boast,
“but [I] do not have love,
I do not benefit at all.”
Now, if we look across
at the study note on this verse,
notice that it says:
“Speaking hypothetically,
“Paul says that if instead of love,
“such pride were his motive,
“he would give everything he owned
to feed others
“or would even die a martyr’s death
as a witness to the truth,
but he would not benefit at all.”
Isn’t that food for thought?
So thinking about this expression,
“godly devotion,”
it’s interesting that one Bible scholar
defined the original word this way:
He said that it is
“a very practical awareness of God
in every aspect of life.”
So if we were to check our godly devotion
and we see
that perhaps it’s not really working
as well as it should,
maybe it needs maintenance.
What sort of maintenance would we give it?
Well, surely we would need
to think of Jehovah
more often every day
to see him as part of our life.
Also, meditating on what Jehovah
has done for us
builds up appreciation and love for him,
and that motivates us
to do what Jehovah wants us to do
out of love,
yes, a heart full of appreciation.
And, of course, offering prayers regularly
to Jehovah
helps to strengthen that relationship.
So, what have we learned so far
in our discussion?
Well, just like the engine of a vehicle
needs to be maintained,
we need to be aware
of whether or not it’s operating correctly.
In a similar way, we need to ask ourselves
honest questions
—questions that search our hearts
with regard to our godly devotion:
‘Is our service to Jehovah
‘based simply on routine and a sense of duty?
‘Do we view it just as a chore,
‘or does our heart show
that it’s filled with appreciation and love
for Jehovah?’
Well, if we build up that appreciation
—that love—
we can be sure
that our godly devotion is good.
Yes, it’s well maintained.
So that’s the first point of comparison
that we’d like to make
in the maintenance schedule for a vehicle
and for our spirituality.
So let’s think of another comparison.
Another very important part of any vehicle
is the brakes.
Now, when we think of the brakes,
they’re absolutely necessary
—aren’t they?—
because someone could jump
in front of your vehicle.
There could be someone
who perhaps is coming too quickly,
and you have to avoid them,
and you need to use those brakes.
So, what do you think
we could compare the brakes to
with regard to our service to Jehovah
and our relationship with him?
Well, the Bible gives us a clue.
As we read Psalm 111,
we’ll see the answer to that question.
So as we turn there to Psalm 111,
let’s see what verse 10 tells us:
“The fear of Jehovah
is the beginning of wisdom.
“All those observing his orders
show good insight.
His praise endures forever.”
So do you see what could be likened
to the brakes of a vehicle?
What is it that stops us
from doing something
that displeases Jehovah?
It’s our fear of Jehovah.
So just as you need to maintain
the brakes in a vehicle,
we also need to make sure
that our love for Jehovah
and our fear of Jehovah
is strong and well maintained.
Now, of course, we need to think:
‘What do we mean by fear of Jehovah?
‘Do we mean shaking all the time,
worried that he’s going to do
something wrong to us?’
No.
Perhaps we could liken it to a chef
who has a razor-sharp knife.
Now, this knife, when used properly,
can help him to attain
all sorts of wonderful things.
But if he misuses it, then he has a problem.
So, in a similar way, if our relationship
is strong with Jehovah,
there’s no need for us
to be shaking in our boots, as it were.
But, rather, we need to remember always
that Jehovah is with us.
And so a healthy fear of Jehovah
means that we don’t want
to displease him in any way.
So a fear of Jehovah helps us
so that as we’re moving along,
if anything comes our way,
we’re ready to stop
if we shouldn’t engage in that activity.
So let’s think for a few moments
about the maintenance check for the brakes.
What would you do?
How would you check
if the brakes are OK or not?
Well, mechanics tell us
that if you’re applying pressure
to the brakes
and you find the steering wheel
is starting to shake,
that’s a sign that maybe they need attention.
Or if you apply pressure to the brakes
and the vehicle starts to veer off
to one side,
again, it’s not a good sign.
Or as you press the brake pedal,
if you find there’s very little resistance
and you have to start pumping it,
again, that’s a problem.
And, of course, like with the engine,
if you start to hear
strange, grinding noises,
that is never a good sign, is it?
Well, what about our fear of Jehovah?
How can we test whether or not
our fear of Jehovah is at the right level?
Well, we know that Satan and his world
constantly throw things at us:
temptations, wrong thinking, and so on.
So it’s just like when you’re driving
in a vehicle
and someone jumps out in front of you
or an animal runs across the road
—that’s when we need those brakes.
But how do we apply them?
How does our godly fear help us?
Well, let’s turn to the book of 2 Corinthians
and see a very interesting point
that is mentioned to the brothers
back there in Corinth.
So 2 Corinthians chapter 10
and we’re going to look at verse 5.
Now, the context of this chapter
is where Paul is talking
about wrong teachings.
But the principle as outlined in this verse
can be applied also to our reaction
to wrong thoughts and immoral thoughts
or all sorts of things
that are not in harmony with Jehovah’s will.
So let’s see if we can see
what the principle is,
2 Corinthians 10:5:
“For we are overturning reasonings
“and every lofty thing raised up
against the knowledge of God,
“and we are bringing every thought
into captivity
to make it obedient to the Christ.”
So do we see the point?
No matter what sort of thought it is
—if it’s an immoral thought,
a temptation to do something wrong,
something that’s not neutral
with regard to the political situation—
what does it say here?
We have to react quickly.
It’s just as if we put on the brakes.
Yes, we have to overturn
all these sort of things
that could be going on in our mind.
So, obviously, it’s important for us
to test our godly fear
in the sense of thinking:
‘How do I normally react
‘if I’m faced with a situation
that perhaps tempts me?
‘Am I quick to react?
‘Do the brakes work properly,
or is my godly fear compromised?’
—an interesting question.
Also, another illustration:
Just imagine that in your car
you find a whole lot of poisonous spiders.
Well, that’s not good, is it?
Of course, you’d get someone
to help you get rid of those spiders.
Now, after you’ve paid that person
to do the job,
how would you feel if they said:
“Well, we got most of them.
There could be one or two left”?
I don’t think you’d be very happy
—would you?—
because you want
all of those poisonous spiders
out of the car.
But what does it tell us here in verse 5?
It says that we have to get
all the things that are out of harmony
with Jehovah
under control.
Yes, we could find that even though
most of the things are under control,
there could be just a few areas
where we haven’t gotten them under control.
It could even be that it’s
as if we’re going in the wrong direction.
Well, what do you need to do if you find out
you’re driving on the highway
in the wrong direction?
Stop, turn around,
and go the opposite direction.
So isn’t that exactly what we should do
when it comes to this matter
of checking our godly fear?
Yes, if we see that in any way
we’re a little slow in reacting
when immoral temptations come our way
or other wrong thinking,
then we need to strengthen
our fear of Jehovah.
Yes, our fear of Jehovah
helps us to resist these things.
Now, what’s something that can help
to strengthen our fear of Jehovah?
Well, again, the Bible
gives us an indication.
This time, we find it
in the book of Proverbs,
Proverbs 8:13.
And you’ll notice that this is
a little definition, or formula, for us.
Proverbs 8:13:
“The fear of Jehovah
means the hating of bad.”
So, what is it that can help us
strengthen our fear of Jehovah?
We need to hate what is bad.
Now, for a moment,
let me ask you this question:
Is there some type of food
that you really hate?
I know I can think of a couple of things
that I just really can’t eat,
and I hate them.
If someone tries to tempt you
to eat that food,
are you going to give in easily?
Of course not, because you hate
that type of food.
Well, how much more important it is for us
to develop within ourselves a hatred
for what is bad.
Yes, we have to make sure
that when we see things that Jehovah hates,
that we feel the same way
—that we don’t accept them.
Never would we allow gradualism
to change our feelings
with regard to what Jehovah says is wrong.
Now, as we read on,
looking back at Proverbs 8:13,
notice it says: “The fear of Jehovah
means the hating of bad.”
Then it says:
“I hate self-exaltation and pride
and the evil way and perverse speech.”
So we need to make sure
that we take out of our hearts
any sort of pride
that could interfere
with our relationship with Jehovah.
That’s very important,
and that’s part of hating what Jehovah hates.
Just think for a moment:
As we’re doing this checklist
to see how our fear of Jehovah is
—is it strong or weak?—
we need to think:
‘What things do I really feel proud about?’
Is there something deep inside you
that you feel,
‘Mmm, yes, I feel really proud about this’?
Well, never forget David’s son Absalom.
He was proud about his hair.
But in the end, it was his hair
that caused him the problem,
and he ended up dying because of his hair
being caught in the branches.
So never would we want to be like Absalom
and allow the thing that we are proud of
to actually cause us a serious problem.
So that’s been interesting
—hasn’t it?—
looking at a second comparison
between the maintenance of a car
and the maintenance of our godly fear.
Just like the brakes,
godly fear can help us to stop
before we do something
that would displease Jehovah.
Now, of course, when we’re thinking
of this matter
of comparing the maintenance of a vehicle
with the maintenance of our spirituality,
there are so many different comparisons
that we could make.
And your mind is
probably already going there thinking,
‘Well, will we make this comparison
or that one?’
But we only have time
for one more comparison.
And you probably won’t think of the one
that we’re going to talk about
—that is, the horn.
You see, in some parts of the world,
drivers say
that the horn is just as important
as the brakes.
Why?
Because they need to let people know
they’re driving along the road.
It could be that someone is beside them
and they’re about to change lanes
and crash into them.
Well, the horn can help.
Or it could be that someone is distracted
and they’re crossing the road.
Again, the horn will help.
So a horn used correctly
can save lives.
So, what do you think
we’re going to compare the horn to
with regard to our spiritual activities?
Well, if we read 1 Timothy together,
1 Timothy 4:16,
we’ll see what the comparison is.
First Timothy 4:16:
“Pay constant attention to yourself
and to your teaching.
“Persevere in these things, for by doing this
you will save both yourself
and those who listen to you.”
So we could say
that just as a horn is important
with regard to a vehicle,
likewise our sounding out the message
of the good news
—our teaching others and telling them
about the nearness of Jehovah’s day—
can result in lives being saved.
But now, if you were to check a horn,
what would you be looking for
or perhaps more importantly listening to?
Well, for a start, you’d try
to test the horn and honk it.
Now, if no sound comes out,
you know you have a problem.
Or, on the other hand,
if the sound is too soft
that nobody can hear it,
that likewise is a problem.
So, what about us?
Do we need to think
about how our proclamation
of “the good news” is?
Yes!
Let’s take not just the normal activities
we’re involved with with our preaching work,
but what about informal witnessing?
Do you see the opportunity?
You think,
‘Yes, I need to talk to this person,’
and
nothing happens.
The horn is not working in a symbolic sense.
Or perhaps we do have the opportunity
and we take it,
but the message is not clear.
So persons don’t really understand
what we’re saying.
So if either of those were the case,
we’d need to see that maintenance is required
with regard to this symbolic horn.
What would we do?
Well, it could involve praying to Jehovah
for courage
—yes, boldness—
to be able to witness to others,
whether it’s informally,
telephone witnessing,
or other forms of witnessing.
And then if we’re not so clear, or coherent,
with regard to how we present the message,
how important it is for us
to practice ahead of time,
to have special sessions
where we practice what we’ll say!
And then in this way, we can be ready
to give a clear message
to those who listen.
Well, that’s been
a very interesting exercise, hasn’t it?
What did we see?
If we’re using this comparison,
this illustration, of a vehicle,
we could say that the engine of a vehicle
is like our godly devotion.
Our devotion to Jehovah
needs to come from our hearts.
And the brakes of a vehicle
we could liken to our fear of Jehovah.
Yes, if we hate what is bad
the same as Jehovah does,
it will stop us, just like brakes do.
And then finally, we discussed this matter
of having a horn
that sounds the message properly.
Yes, we need to make sure
that we ask for Jehovah’s help
to maintain our witnessing in such a way
that we can clearly help others
to hear the message.
So as we’ve gone through this,
I’m sure (as we’ve already mentioned)
you can think of many other comparisons.
But the point is
that a wise driver
does not just drive his car
or motorbike or whatever vehicle it is.
A wise driver also checks to make sure
that the vehicle is safe to use.
So likewise for us,
as 2 Corinthians 13:5 says,
we need to “keep testing.”
Yes, we need to “keep proving”
that we are in the faith.
In other words, keep checking
that we really are Christians,
that we are really living up
to what we believe
and what we teach others to do.
But remember, what is it
that can be a problem for us?
Well, again, if we turn
to the book of Corinthians,
this time 1 Corinthians
chapter 10 and verse 12,
we’ll see what the problem can be.
That’s 1 Corinthians 10:12:
“Let the one who thinks he is standing
beware that he does not fall.”
Yes, just thinking everything is OK
(there are no problems)
and thinking that we’re just going on fine
without testing ourselves
and proving that we’re in the truth
—that can be a problem,
just like lack of maintenance to a vehicle
can result in not only damage
with regard to the vehicle
but also loss of life.
How important then it is
that we continue to keep testing
whether or not we are in the faith,
or in the truth!
So if we do these tests regularly
and if we check to see:
How is our godly devotion going?
How is our fear of Jehovah?
our hatred for what is bad?
How is our sounding out of the message going?
If we see some weaknesses,
what do we need to do?
Well, our final scripture
takes us back to our theme scripture.
Remember, that was 2 Corinthians 13:5,
where it says:
“Keep testing . . . keep proving
what you yourselves are.”
But then if we look down a little further
to verse 11,
we’ll notice what it tells us
that we need to do
if we see some problems.
In verse 11, it tells us:
“Finally, brothers, continue to rejoice,
to be readjusted.”
Now, what does it mean “to be readjusted”?
Well, if you look at verse 9,
you see the same expression is used there
at the end of verse 9.
And the study note to that verse
tells us this:
It says the word is “used to describe
“the restoring of something
to a proper condition.
“For instance, at Mt 4:21,
the [word] . . . is used to describe
‘mending’ nets.”
So nets that are damaged
or have holes in them
—mending them is just like readjusting them.
At Galatians 6:1, the same verb is used
for the need to spiritually readjust
a fellow believer who has taken a false step.
The term is sometimes used in medical text
to describe the setting of a bone,
a limb, or a joint.
So, what’s the point?
If we do this checklist
—go through it—
and we see that somehow
our godly devotion is not as strong
as it should be
and we are just doing things out of routine
but our love for Jehovah is no longer strong,
or if we find that our fear of Jehovah
is not stopping us from doing what is wrong,
or if we are finding that we just are not
thoroughly bearing witness to the good news,
then we need to take action.
What does it involve?
Well, as it says here,
first of all, identifying what the problem is
and then readjusting, repairing,
and (in some places) replacing activities.
So, brothers and sisters,
let’s always remember
that no matter how long
we’ve been in the truth,
no matter what privileges we have,
we need to keep looking at that checklist.
Yes, we need to “keep testing” and “proving”
that we are  in the faith.